JUDY WOODRUFF: As we noted
earlier, the issue of Russian
meddling figured into the Senate
confirmation hearing today for
Christopher Wray, the nominee
to be the next FBI director.
But it was not the
only topic of note.
Senators were also trying to
get a sense for whether Wray
was the right person to lead
the bureau through the
political crosswinds of the day.
Lisa Desjardins
takes it from there.
LISA DESJARDINS: He's worked 25
years as both as a top federal
a prosecutor and as defense
attorney.
SEN.
CHARLES GRASSLEY (R), Iowa: Do
you affirm that the testimony
you're about to give before
the committee will be the truth,
the whole truth and nothing
but the truth, so help you,
God?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY, FBI
Director Nominee: I do.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Christopher
Wray faced few questions about
his experience, and instead
a long list of them about
his independence as a
potential FBI chief.
SEN.
PATRICK LEAHY (D), Vermont: If
the president asked you to do
something unlawful or unethical,
what do you say?
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: First, I
would try to talk him out of it.
And if that failed,
I would resign.
LISA DESJARDINS: It was one of
many references to the last FBI
director, James Comey, fired
by President Trump.
Comey claimed the president
asked him to let go of
investigating former
aide Michael Flynn,
and demanded a loyalty oath.
The White House
disputes all of that.
But Wray, as the FBI nominee,
was asked about his allegiance.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: My loyalty is
to the Constitution, to the rule
of law, and to the mission of
the FBI.
And no one asked me for any
kind of loyalty oath at any
point during this process, and
I sure as heck didn't offer one.
LISA DESJARDINS: And
about his conviction.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I believe
to my core that there's only
one right way to do this job,
and that is with
strict independence,
by the book, playing it
straight, faithful to the
Constitution.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wray spoke
about his 2004 pledge to leave
the Justice Department over
the Bush administration's use
of warrantless wiretaps, which
he believed were illegal.
He was following the lead of
Comey, then the deputy attorney
general, and Robert Mueller,
then the FBI director, and
now the man in charge of the
special Russia investigation.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I view him as
the consummate straight-shooter,
and somebody I have enormous
respect for.
And I would be pleased to
do what I can to support
him in his mission.
LISA DESJARDINS: Wray also
worked on counterterrorism
at the Justice Department,
and was asked today
about torture.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: My view
is that torture is wrong.
It's unacceptable, it's illegal,
and I think it's ineffective.
LISA DESJARDINS: And
about protecting Muslim
Americans from backlash.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY: I think
the FBI director and the FBI
needs to be -- the FBI and the
FBI director for all Americans,
including Muslim Americans.
And my experience in terrorism
investigations has been that
some of the best leads we ever
got were from members
of that community.
LISA DESJARDINS: He stressed
the need to fight terrorism,
including cyber-terrorism, and
protect classified information.
In the end, senators of
both parties seemed assured.
SEN.
AL FRANKEN (D), Minnesota:
Looking around, I'm feeling
that you have had a good hearing
today.
And best of luck to you, sir.
CHRISTOPHER WRAY:
Thank you, Senator.
That means a lot.
LISA DESJARDINS: If approved,
Wray would be the eighth FBI
director confirmed by the U.S.
Senate.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.